Software Requirements Specification for Library Management System
Table of Contents:
1.0 Introduction
1.1 Purpose
1.2 Scope of Product
1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
1.4 References
1.5 Overview
2.0 General Description
2.1 Product Perspective
2.2 Product Functions
2.3 User Characteristics
2.4 General Constraints
2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies
3.0 Specific Requirements
3.1 Functional Requirements
3.1.1 User Interface
3.1.1.1 Library user account manage system
3.1.1.2 Book borrowing system
3.1.1.3 Book recall system
3.1.1.4 Search book record
3.1.2 Data Entry
3.1.2.1 Library user account manage system
3.1.2.2 Book borrowing system
3.1.2.3 Book recall system
3.1.2.4 Search book record
3.1.2.5 Update book database
3.1.3 Report Generation
3.2 Performance Requirements
3.3 Design Constraints
3.4 Security Requirements
3.5 Reliability
1.0 Introduction
1.1 Purpose
This is the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) for the Library Management System. The purpose of this document is to convey information
about the application's requirements, both functional and non-functional, to the reader. This document provides (a) a description of the environment in
which the application is expected to operate, (b) a definition of the application's capabilities, and (c) a specification of the application's functional and
nonfunctional requirements.
The document is intended to serve several groups of audiences:
First, it is anticipated that the SRS will be used by the application designers. Designers will use the information recorded here as the basis for
creating the application's design.
Second, the client for the project, the library manager in our case, is expected to review this document. The SRS will serve to establish a basis
for agreement between the client and development team about the functionality to be provided by the application.
Third, the application maintainers will review the document to clarity their understanding of what the application does.
Fourth, test planners will use this document to derive test plans and test cases.
Finally, the project manager will use this document during project planning and monitoring.
1.2 Scope of Product
The purpose of this software development project is to create a new application called: Library Management System. The client for this project wishes
to enter the PC-based LAN environment. The Library Management System will be PC-base with a LAN, allowing library users to search for books
and library staff members to manage the book inventory and user database. The application will provide the following capabilities:
The application will be access via a LAN on a PC terminal in the Library
Library staff will be able to manage library user accounts including remove, change, and add.
Library staff will be able to manage the book inventory database including remove, change, and add.
The application will record all books that are checked out, checked in, and recalled.
The application will generate reports for administrative purposes.
The application will provide search function on books based on ISBN, subject, title, or author.
The project's client has determined that this application will provide the following benefits:
Provide additional flexibility and convenience to the library users.
Provide better reliability and security of the library information.
Provide a more productive environment for the library staff member.
Reduce the cost of the library operations.
1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
SRS - Software Requirements Specification.
PC - Personal Computer.
LAN - Local Area Network.
IEEE - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
ISBN - International Standardized Bin Number.
1.4 References
1. Merlin Dorfman, Richard H. Thayer, "Standards, Guidelines, and Examples on System and software Requirements Engineering", IEEE, 1990.
1.5 Overview
A brief description of the content of each chapter is given below.
1.0 Introduction
Provides an overview of the project. Summarizes the major capabilities of the product.
2.0 General Description
Presents the environment in which the application is expected to operate, provides an overview of the system requirements, describes
assumptions about possible users of the application, possible constraints on the project, and the underlying assumptions that on which the
requirements analysis is based.
3.0 Specific Requirements
The specification of requirements. Contains a complete description of the application's requirements, both functional and non-functional.
2.0 General Description
2.1 Product Perspective
The Library Book System is used for Library Manager, Librarian, and Library User. The system is self-contained. However, it is possible to exchange
data with other system through external interface if required. The following is a typical system diagram:
2.2 Product Functions
The high level summary of functions in Library Book System is described in the following concept map. Detail functional requirements will be
described in section 3.
2.3 User Characteristics
The three types of user for the Library Book System are:
Library Manager
Librarian
Library User
The following table describe general users characteristics that will affect the functionality of the software product.
Type of
User
User Characteristic
User Technical
Expertise
How the user
characteristic and
technical expertise
affect Library Book
System functionality
Library
Manager
Good understanding to
library operation
Responsible for library
operation as a whole.
Responsible for library
staff managing
Average in technical
proficiency
Used text type terminal
in the old library book
system
User interface with less
input steps.
Easy to learn.
Librarian
Good understanding to
library operation
Responsible for library
operation.
Average in technical
proficiency
Used text type terminal
in the old library book
system
User interface with less
input steps.
Easy to learn.
(Diverse user
characteristic)
Younger generation
tends to accept and
learn new thing (i.e.
computer system)
easier than older
generation Younger generation
GUI interface may be
easier to learn than text
interface.
Library User Older generation may
like the new system be
similar to the old one
in terms of user
interfaces and
functionality. Will not have any
formal training to use
the system.
has a lot of exposure to Windows type
application
Provide system help
Provide appropriate
error messages for
invalid user inputs.
2.4 General Constraints
The current hardware for the existing Library Book System is mainframe with text type terminal. Therefore, if the new system is PC based, there will
be a need to replace with PC hardware and new network facility.
The Library Book System can potentially have hundreds of users. It is unrealistic to provide training for everyone. Therefore, the system should be
designed for easy to use, providing help instructions, and appropriate error messages for invalid user inputs.
Security is important to library operation. Library user is allowed to use the Library Book System only for searching book records. User should never
be able to break into the system and to perform any modification.
Reliability is vital to library operation. The Library Book System should not have any unscheduled down time during library operation hours. Any
down time in operation hours has significant impact to the operation and cause inconvenience to everyone in library.
2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies
The following is a list of assumptions and dependencies that would affect the software requirements if they turned out to be false:
Users have basic understanding to PC and Windows.
There is a method to convert all book records and library user records from the existing system into the Library Book System.
3.0 Specific Requirements:
This section contains the detailed requirements. In this section, the users of "Search Book Record" are refereed to librarians and patrons (library
users). Users of other sections are only refereed to the librarian card holder (librarians and library managers.)
3.1 Functional Requirements
3.1.1 User Interface
The user interface requirements are concerned with the user interface and how information is presented to the user.
3.1.1.1 Library user account manage system
SRS-001: The system shall display the user account information including user ID, last and first name, and user position, privilege.
SRS-002: The system shall use a graphic user interface which allows librarians to choice actions including removing, changing and adding user
account and account information..
3.1.1.2 Book borrowing system.
SRS-003: When check out the books, the system shall show all the book borrowing information about a particular user including:
the first and last name of the user
the library card number
the library card expiring date
if the user has unpaid penalty
the number of books the user has not return
SRS-004: When check out the books, when required by librarians, the system shall show the information about books which is borrowed before and
not returned yet including:
the ISBN of the book
the title of the book
the borrowing and due date of the book
the branch which the book is checked out
SRS-005: When check out the books, the system shall display the information of the book which is just being checking out including: ISBN, title, due
date.
SRS-006: When check in the books, the system shall show the title, ISBN of the book which is being checked in. When check in is finished, a "check
in" stamp shall be seen.
3.1.1.3 Book recall system
SRS-007: When recalling the book, the system shall display a list of all the copies of the book which is borrowed out ordered by book lend out time.
SRS-008: When the recalled book is arrived, the system shall display the last and first name, the recall date and the arriving date of the book. If only
one copy of book is arrived and more than one user are waiting, users shall be displayed ordered by recalling time. When check in recall book is
finished, a "check in recall" stamp shall be seen.
3.1.1.4 Search book record
SRS-009: The system shall display a list of books which are match the search criteria sorted by book titles including:
the category
the ISBN
the title
the author
SRS-008: When required by users, the system shall display the information about a particular book including:
the category
the title
the ISBN
the publisher
the brief description of the book (if any stored in database)
the location in library
3.1.2 Data Entry
The data entry requirements are concerned with how data is entered and validated.
SRS-010: The system shall allow a user to enter his/her data via a keyboard or choose an item via a mouse.
SRS-011: Whenever the "date" data is needed, it shall be entered only by choose date from a online calendar.
SRS-012: The system shall allow the user to enter the library card number and ISBN both by typing or scanning.
SRS-013: The system shall allow the user to enter book borrowing, recalling data as frequently as required.
3.1.2.1 Library user account manage system
SRS-014: The system shall allow the user to attach notes to each account
SRS-015: The system shall allow the user to add or change information in an account including: last name, first name, user ID, user position, user
privilege.
SRS-016: the system shall allow the user to delete an entire account.
3.1.2.2 Book borrowing system.
SRS-017: The system shall allow the user to specify a checking out book using its ISBN.
SRS-018: The system shall allow the user to specify a patron by the library card number.
SRS-019: The system shall allow the user to specify a checking in book using its ISBN.
SRS-020: The system shall allow the user to specify that a penalty is paid.
SRS-021: The system shall check and show the number of books which are checked out and if the number is exceeded the limitation for patrons except
for librarian card holders.
SRS-022: The system shall check and show if the book can only be used in library
SRS-023: The system shall let the librarian card holders to check out books which can only be used in library.
SRS-024: The system shall commit the check in and check out data to the database as soon as the data is entered.
3.1.2.3 Book recall system
SRS-025: The system shall allow the user to specify a recalled book by book ISBN
SRS-026: The system shall allow the user to choose one copy of book to recall from a list of copies which are borrowed out.
SRS-027: The system shall allow the user to record the record notification send out date, the book arrive date, the pick-up notification send out date.
3.1.2.4 Search book record
SRS-028: The system shall allow the user typing in search criteria including book title, key word in title, ISBN, subject, category.
SRS-029: The system shall allow the user choose language option which the searched book is used including English, Spanish and French.
SRS-030: If the search result are a list of books, the system shall allow the user to choose any one of them to see the details.
3.1.2.5 Update book database
SRS-031: The system shall allow the user to add or change the record information including:
the category
the title
the ISBN
the publisher
the brief description of the book
the location in library
the purchase date
the price
SRS-032: the system shall allow the user to put "delete" stamp for a existing book and specify the deleting reason.
3.1.3 Report Generation
the report generation requirements are concerned with the report generation capabilities of the Library system.
SRS-034: The system shall have a report feature that will allow the user to generate a report showing the information of all the sign out book in a time
period which is the search criteria input by user. The information includes the number of books, the time period and the information is grouped by
book categories.
SRS-035: The system shall have a report feature that will allow the user to generate a report showing the information about all the users who have
overdue books and penalty.
SRS-036: The system shall have a report feature that will allow the user to generate a report showing the information of a particular patron.
SRS-037: The system shall have a report feature that will allow the user to generate a report showing the information of book purchase information in
a period including the book titles, category, the author, the publisher, the price. It also shall give statistic data about the total number of books
purchased, the money paid by category.
SRS-038: The system shall be generate those reports to the display, a file or a printer which is linked to the system.
3.2 Performance Requirements
SRS-039: The check in and check out system shall respond to the user no more than 5 seconds. The search function shall respond to the user no more
than 9 seconds.
3.3 Design Constraints
SRS-040: The system shall be installed in a windows-NT network.
3.4 Security Requirements
SRS-041: The account management system shall only be used by managers or users with defined privileges.
SRS-042: The check-in, check-out and recall system shall only be used by users who have librarian ID.
SRS-043: The Patron information report shall be generated by users who have librarian ID.
SRS-044: The book sign out report or book purchase report shall only be generated by managers or users with defined privileges.
SRS-045: Database update data shall be committed to the database only after the managers have approved.
3.5 Reliability
SRS-041: The system shall be recovered within 10 minutes if it is down.
SRS-042: The system shall be recovered without intervention at user terminal if it is down.
SRS-043: The system shall show appropriate messages at terminal when system is down.
SRS-044: The system shall have 99% reliability during library operating hours.
SRS-045: Scheduled down time after library operating hours shall not be more than 1 hour per day.
SRS-046: The system shall generate error messages when the user attempts to enter invalid data.
See also:
Requirement Specification Document
Last modified: Oct. 21, 22